The Joe Rogan experience.
But that moment is special because there's value in suffering and in today's
society,
we have convinced ourselves that there is no value in suffering that the entire
role of say government is to end your suffering. But this is a false promise.
Not only is it a false promise,
but it will create a weak society that is unable to sustain itself.
That's a really important point. And I think there's,
I think there's deep truth in that this is why victimhood politics is so
dangerous. And I would say populism is too.
I think the two are almost indistinguishable from each other.
People are always trying to talk about populism on the right and the left.
And I say, look, well, here's what populism is. It's telling you what you feel.
It's mirroring your feelings back to you.
It's telling you what you want to hear as opposed to the truth that I,
I think that's a decent definition of populism. I don't like it.
I don't like people embracing it. Um, it, it doesn't just mean, Hey,
things that are good, that people are for, well,
you know what a lot of people are for $1,600 checks that are free.
That doesn't mean it's a good policy, right?
That's a good example of a populated.
If they voted and said, do you want a hundred thousand dollars, three years?
Um, everybody would vote. Yes. Yeah. Why wouldn't you,
but is it a sustainable policy? And of course not, of course not. Um, and the,
the kind of amounts of that to the, I think drastic lurches and, you know,
welfare policy or infrastructure spending and all of these things that we're
seeing, it's populism on steroids. It's telling you what you want to hear,
and that's not truth.
That's not truth.
And we have to get back to truth and we have to get away from this victim hood
mentality where we actually, we actually elevate this idea of being helpless.
That's, what's changed. That's what's changed in the last decade.
It used to be that, well, you,
you might feel some shame if you were the type to, you know what, you know what?
I just, I need some help. I feel bad about it. I'm going to get back on my feet,
but I need some help right now.
That used to be the sort of American way, right? We, we need a safety net.
That's nobody would disagree with that. We need a safety net.
We need to help people who have truly fallen on hard times,
who lost their jobs because of COVID.
But does that also mean we needed to provide a $1,400 check to somebody who
never lost their job and whose biggest hardship has been zoom meetings?
Of course not.
But over a hundred million people were getting checks that never lost their jobs
a hundred million easily. It's way more. It's way more than that.
I'm cutting it off at a hundred million. Jen, that to me, w when we,
when we send out checks the direct cash payments,
I've always been against direct cash payments. So these.
The COVID stimulus checks. Yeah.
So, cause they go out to anybody, those.
Checks that didn't lose their jobs. Of course.
What, yeah. The cutoff was like 75 K a year.
So that made them in a wait a minute means every federal will not.
Workers getting any money because of the pandemic still got checked.
Yeah. These were never, these were never based on your situation.
What?
Yeah.
Really it's ridiculous.
No, that I thought you had to lose your job. I thought there was a problem.
Yeah. Wait a minute. People who never a penny. So if you look at their, their,
their tax receipts, you look at their, their, uh,
what they made in 2019 versus 2020. Correct. If they,
they didn't lose any more.
Yeah, no, it was it's based on your, just, just your income.
So I think 75 K a year was the cutoff, but also if you're a married couple,
150 K, and if you have kids and it's even more,
so you've got like a lot of active duty military friends,
you're getting thousands of dollars because you know, they have kids and,
but it's like, why? And they're like, why, why am I getting,
this is such a waste of taxpayer money. You know what I mean?
Do your duty go spend it on a local business?
The suffering,
the money was allocated to people that lost money because of the pandemic.
Oh no, no, because we already have a season for that.
It's unemployment insurance or our system works fine for that. And this is,
this was always my thing. It's like, look,
I'm in favor of temporarily boosting payments to those who are unemployed on
unemployed insurance,
usually state run unemployment insurance runs at it's it's at a
formula that would,
that would make sure that you're not making more than you would have if you were
already employed because you don't want to have a disincentive to go back to
work.
Right.
What we did in the initial stages of the pandemic was increased that to 600,
an extra $600 a week. If you're unemployed, I'm okay with that for a few weeks,
during hard times, the problem is Democrats want to keep it forever.
And now every business I talked to was like, I can't hire people.
I have so many job openings right now.
Can't hire anybody because we still have it. It's $300 a week,
but we still have it. It means people are getting paid to stay home.
There's a distance there. They're making a purely rational financial decision.
But again, that's one conversation. That's, that's at least a debate to be had,
you know, during hard times, but the direct cash payments, that's nuts.
That's nuts. What are the direct cash? That's the free money. That's the frame.
That's the free money.
So this is the people that even though they still make the same amount,
they made it 2000, 19, 2020, they got a big check, you know, reason.
Yep. A hundred percent.
That seems crazy.
The math that's well, over a hundred million.
People, they just got it. They didn't ask for it. They just received it.
So it's not something they're guilty of. Yeah. They just received it.
But it gets to the cultural argument that we're talking about. No,
there was no backlash for this.
Even on the right. I remember. I remember I was, I was,
I was a little frustrated with the president or the ex president, Donald Trump,
the president I voted for that, uh, he was,
he was pushing for those $2,000 cash payments. I said.
I don't really think that he was doing that politically and I didn't vote for
him, but don't you think that's the.
That's political. That's exactly the point.
There's an incentive now to pay people off with their own money and it's not
good.
Yeah.
But it wasn't don't you think that he was in a desperation situation where he
just wanted to get reelected? I mean, he's.
This was in December. He was already, he had already lost.
Oh. So in December, after he lost he still,
but he didn't think he lost. He thought he was.
[Inaudible].
It's a good conversation.
He thought he was going to somehow or another get reinstated. I don't.
I don't know if he ever truly believed that, but, um, he was pushing for it,
but yeah, it is on the, on the victim hood side.
That's this is the demise of the Republic.
When, when,
when people are comfortable with being bought off with their own tax dollars and
being comfortable,
even more than that comfortable with being told that they're victimized and that
some other group is, is responsible for that victimization. Just to.
Turn a bad situation, they're in a bad somebody else's and someone did it.
To you. And maybe it's the 1%, maybe it says those mean corporate giants.
And now those corporate giants trying to get all woke and get on the Democrats
good side. Like they always do because, you know,
they don't because they want to maintain their little piece of the pie. That's.
It's tricky, right? Where they manipulate the narrative,
they realize where people's heads are at. So they try to jump on board,
catch new episodes of the Joe Rogan experience for free only on Spotify,
watch back catalog JRE videos on Spotify,
including clips easily seamlessly switch between video
and audio experience on Spotify.
You can listen to the JRE in the background while using other apps and can
download episodes to save on data costs.
All for free. Spotify is absolutely free.
You don't have to have a premium account to watch new JRE episodes.
You just need to search for the Jerry on your Spotify app.
Go to Spotify now to get this full episode of the Joe Rogan.